[Return to Home](https://chase4eck.github.io/workshop-/)

## Rosling and Jahan Question:
Selim Jahan introduces the idea that for far too long the paradigm of economic development has dominated the idea of human development. Jahan states that while income is critical it is not an end, and that human development is about expanding the richness of life, not the richness of the economy within which human beings live. What are some of the targetted issues that Jahan examples as requiring focus throughout the world? Elaborate further on Jahan’s definition of human development. What are the different measures incorporated into the Human Development Index that serve to capture the breadth and focus of each countries’ average achievement?

Hans Rosling states that “we underestimate the tremendous social change that often precedes economic change” and proceeds to provide several examples. What were some of the examples Rosling presented where health appeared to be a precursor to wealth? What was Rosling’s warning regarding the dangers of using averages when describing development?

Inclue an intro(hook) as well as a conclusion. Describe & analyze the information presented. 

## Response:

Jahan emphasizes the concept of human development being OF the people, FOR the people, and BY the people. He elaborates on how specific topics need this type of focus. For example, Jahan discusses the nature of choice, or free will. He also tackles the concept of attempting to measure human development. Though it is impossible to truly perform this task, the Human Development Index (HDI) does an adequate job. Jahan even goes on to call the HDI the "crown jewel of human development." He then continues to explain how there are two different types of measures of human development: breadth measure and focus measure. He describes breadth measure as a larger scale observation, while focus measure is more of a descriptive factor.

Rosling made a big deal of highlighting how health comes before wealth. In a nutshell, he argues that a country can develop much faster if it is healthy first than if it is wealthy. The example that he applies this to is the comparison of child survivability and family income. Though these two things are directly proportional, Rosling demonstrated how an increase in income leads to a slow rise in survivability. 

Rosling spends the second half of his TED Talk discussing the dangers of using averages. By expanding a country into smaller regions, Rosling shows how large of a distribution there is relating to wealth. For example, he splits Africa up into its countries; they then reveal how there are some countries in Africa that seek aid, while others are more of a vacation destination. The problem with using averages is that Africa as a whole is neither poverty stricken nor rich: it's a mixture of both

## Response (Revised):

What is the true purpose of human development? Take a second to contemplate the why and the how. This consciousness is vital for human development. Once we as a race forget this purpose, human development becomes a race for power, which leads to corruption. Both Rosling and Jahan try to keep this concept in the back of the reader's/listener's mind. They touch on the difficulties involved with data science, such as using averages to describe a country that is far from average, or the use of collaboration to tackle problems that cannot be overcome alone. One common theme that they tend to flash is the idea of being one people, who are striving to achieve the same goals-- that is, as long as we keep our true goal in mind. Jahan's podcasts delve into some of these ideas, and he raises some very interesting points. 

One of Jahan's big ideas is the concept of human development being OF the people, FOR the people, and BY the people. He elaborates on how specific topics need this type of focus. For example, Jahan discusses the nature of choice, or free will. He also tackles the concept of attempting to measure human development. Though it is impossible to truly perform this task, the Human Development Index (HDI) does an adequate job. Jahan even goes on to call the HDI the "crown jewel of human development." He then continues to explain how there are two different types of measures of human development: breadth measure and focus measure. He describes breadth measure as a larger scale observation, while focus measure is more of a descriptive factor.

Free will is an inherent gift as well as curse. Free will itself is power, and power can lead to corruption. When someone has both the power of free will and vast assets, data science can be used for reasons other than bettering our race as a whole. One author, Joshua Blumenstock, explains how some companies take advantage of the population in Sub-saharan Africa by offering quick loans with high levels of interest. These companies take advantage of the knowledge that these people need loans desperately, and offer them these easy-to-access digital lones, which are known as "payday-loans" (for how they pay out for the company). Blumenstock discusses this idea of taking advantage of these people, and even states "a 2015 study in Rwanda found that only 51% of borrowers were aware of the interest rate they were being charged," (Blumestock 171). This is the power of free will. Jahan explicitly says that by keeping data science "for the people", we can avoid conflicts such as these payday loans. Another way to avoid them is to develop a correct focus, which Rosling touches on.

Rosling explains how the focus of data science for human development must be on the people, not the country. Towards the end of his TED Talk, he discusses this idea with relation to interpretting averages. By expanding a country into smaller regions, Rosling shows how large of a distribution there is relating to wealth. For example, he splits Africa up into its countries; they then reveal how there are some countries in Africa that seek aid, while others are more of a vacation destination. The problem with using averages is that Africa as a whole is neither poverty stricken nor rich: it's a mixture of both. The moral of the story here is that you cannot classify a continent, country, or even province as a whole; you must look at the people. This is why human development makes use of big data: there are a lot of people in the world, so there's a lot of data. Jahan discusses how its impossible to accurately measure every aspect of humanity, though the HDI attempts to. Another theme that Jahan and Rosling would agree on is the priority of health over wealth.

Rosling made a big deal of public health as a top priority. Jahan touches on how . In a nutshell, he argues that a country can develop much faster if it is healthy first than if it is wealthy. The example that he applies this to is the comparison of child survivability and family income. Though these two things are directly proportional, Rosling demonstrated how an increase in income leads to a slow rise in survivability. 


### Sources:
[Blumenstock - Don’t forget people in the use of big data for development](https://www.nature.com/magazine-assets/d41586-018-06215-5/d41586-018-06215-5.pdf)
[Jahan - What is Human Development?](https://soundcloud.com/hdro-web/what-is-human-development)
[Jahan - What is Human Development? continued](https://soundcloud.com/hdro-web/hdr2015theme)
